So we are redirecting to the 500 error page in this catch block and we can do this in any catch block where
we want to ensure that we do handle errors.
Now the problem is we'll quickly duplicate our code a lot because we've got a lot of catch blocks where
we interact with the database and in every catch block here, we should redirect to the 500 page, at
least
in a lot of them, we would want to do that probably because for all these database failures or permission
problems, it seems to be a bigger problem
so returning this page might be a good solution. But replicating that code all over the place is
rarely what we want to do,
what we can do instead is instead of redirecting here, we can throw a new error, this built-in error object
with the built-in throw function or keyword.
We do that inside of the catch block,
in this case here, of the post add product action.
So here I throw a new error and I can throw a new error with a bit more details
by first of all creating an error object with new error, I can pass my error message like creating
a product failed or something like that
or simply keep that error object which also has a message which you get returned by the catch block
here.
So I'm creating my own object which is built up on that now and then we can also add a new field here,
http status code and set this to 500 for example
and now here's something cool, we can return next
and pass the error as an argument to next.
We didn't do that before right, before when we called
next like in app.js here, we simply called it without arguments to let the next middleware take over.
Well when we call next with an error passed as an argument, then we actually let express know that
an error occurred and it will skip all other middlewares and move right away to an error handling
middleware and that's the middleware I'll define now.
So next error is the trick here with an error object being passed instead of throwing it
and now we can go to app.js and there at the bottom, let's add a new middleware
with app use and normally this could never be reached because we have our catch all middleware down there
but there's a special type of middleware which we haven't seen before.
All middlewares we added thus far, for example this get 404 action in the error controller,
all these middlewares use three arguments, request response and next. Express also knows a middleware with
four arguments, a so-called error handling middleware and there, the first argument will be the error and
then followed by the other three arguments.
Now express is clever enough to detect that this is a special kind of middleware and it will move right away
to these error handling middlewares when you call next with an error passed to it, so it will then
skip all the other middlewares and move to that
and therefore here I could now render my 500 page or simply redirect to /500,
I could do that. And now if I save that and I go back to my application and I try adding that product
which will still fail because I didn't fix that issue,
I load my error handling page but now with this central error handling middleware. Now that we added this
error handling code,
we can of course also repeat this in other places and you could refactor it into one function of course
which you then just call in all these places, for example to also send an error here where we fail to
edit or load the data for editing a product.
We can force this to fail by manually throwing a new dummy error in here,
again this is of course now kind of a set up scenario, you would never write this but this allows you
to force this to fail,
it would be kind of hard to force the database to fail right now because most of the time thankfully
it works.
But now I have this dummy error and hence if I now edit a product, I also see my 500 page because
I throw this dummy error which I'll of course remove now because it does not make any sense to add this
but then we made it into catch and there we created this error object and we called next with it and that
again will then trigger this special error handling middleware.
Now in case you're wondering what the status code is doing here,
well in this scenario, I'm always redirecting to the 500 route here but of course we could have a different
scenario where we don't redirect here but we want to render a page instead
or we want return some json data, something we'll do later in the course and then I would want to set
my error http status code code here as a response code.
So this is not the solution we're using here but this is what you could do
and I just want to show that you can pass extra information with the error object so that you can use it in
this central error handler here.
Now please note, the this error handler will not execute for 404 errors.
There we still handle this manually because technically, the 404 error is simply just a valid url
which we catch with our catch all handler there where we then just happen to render the 404 page,
it's not a technical error object that gets created at any point here.